Setting expectations and pre project communication.
So once you have identified a business problem that you want to work on that is important enough for
you to invest your time in.
And you you see the challenges that you are faced with.
You definitely have to sit down with the person that you're delivering his project for and tell them
discuss with them the expect the time frames and deadlines and time and checkpoints along the way.
This is basically a project management 101 you got to tell the people that you're doing this project
for when they can expect the result.
And it is important to make them or help them understand that this is not a regular project where everything
is defined and you know exactly what's going to happen.
This is not science.
You have to take into account all the data prep you're going to have to do all the data gathering is
you're going to have to do even interviews with people.
So there's a lot of research that goes on in the initial phase.
So remember that 70 percent of your work at least 70 percent is going to be data cleaning out of prep
and that's only after you actually have the data.
And then after that you're going to have to drive inside's create models and so on.
So data science projects are usually not quick and you have to make this clear to the people that you're
delivering the project for so that their expectations are set and you have to of course you have to
aim to meet deadlines and that's why I always recommend set yourself like ample time give yourself ample
time to meet the deadline is better to under promise and over deliver.
As they say right rather than the opposite right.
So you'd rather set a further deadline and deliver earlier and more.
More often than not you will still barely meet a deadline.
These are quite sophisticated and bold projects that we're talking about and moreover keep your person
the person that you're delivering the Project for.
Keep them updated along the way tell them how you going what challenges you're facing.
Always important to tell them if if are intervention meet the deadline tell them as early as possible
and so that they can move around you know move their requirements around and maybe there'll be extra
room for you to do the project properly.
And another thing that I wanted to mention So this all kind of standard stuff but another thing I wanted
to mention that is very real and true data science is project scope creep.
So the scope creep is the phenomenon when people ask you for one thing and as you do very insightful
on the way there is always going to be more requests for more additional insights or to change a project
and so on.
So that's that's why it's called scope creep.
Well you've got a lot of fight that very very efficiently you're going to of course you are interested
in delivering over and above than what you expected.
Although the other people expected.
But make sure that you talk about it at the start.
You have to warn people that on assigns products that is normal that you find insights that will change
modify more your project and their expectations and requirements and so they have to know in advance
that if that happens then you will need additional time or you'll have to discuss the time frames again
and you will set a different deadline.
So make sure that that expectation is clear.
And if you didn't agree to any scope creep then kind of try to stay away from taking on more and more
work as you go along deliver the main project and then see what you can deliver over and above after
that